# Asciidocs MKDocs Static Site Demo

## Getting Started

This document is sample asciidoc content used to test a github pages based asciidoc static site generated with pandoc and MKDocs.

## AsciiDoc Syntax Quick Reference

Dan Allen; Sarah White
v1.0.3, 2014-12-28

AsciiDoc is a mature, lightweight markup language for authoring notes, articles, documentation, books, web pages, slide decks and man pages in plain text.

Several examples focus on the output generated by the HTML backend.
AsciiDoc produces complementary output when generating DocBook.

Most features labeled "`Asciidoctor only`" can be made available to the native AsciiDoc processor by using [this AsciiDoc configuration file](https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor/blob/master/compat/asciidoc.conf) from the Asciidoctor project.

## Paragraphs

**Normal.**

    Paragraphs don't require any special markup in AsciiDoc.
    A paragraph is just one or more lines of consecutive text.

    To begin a new paragraph, separate it by at least one blank line.

Paragraphs don’t require any special markup in AsciiDoc.
A paragraph is just one or more lines of consecutive text.

To begin a new paragraph, separate it by at least one blank line.

**Line breaks.**

    To preserve a line break, end the line in a space followed by a plus sign. +
    This results in a visible line break (e.g., `<br>`) between the lines.

To preserve a line break, end the line in a space followed by a plus sign.  
This results in a visible line break (e.g., `<br>`) between the lines.

**Literal.**

    A normal paragraph.

     A sequence of lines that begin with at least one space is a literal paragraph.
     Literal paragraphs are treated as preformatted text.
     The text is shown in a fixed-width font
     and endlines are preserved.

    Another normal paragraph.

A normal paragraph.

    A sequence of lines that begin with at least one space is a literal paragraph.
    Literal paragraphs are treated as preformatted text.
    The text is shown in a fixed-width font
    and endlines are preserved.

Another normal paragraph.

**Admonition.**

    NOTE: An admonition paragraph draws the reader's attention to
    auxiliary information.
    Its purpose is determined by the label
    at the beginning of the paragraph.

    Here are the other built-in admonition types:

    TIP: Pro tip...

    IMPORTANT: Don't forget...

    WARNING: Watch out for...

    CAUTION: Ensure that...

An admonition paragraph draws the reader’s attention to
auxiliary information.
Its purpose is determined by the label
at the beginning of the paragraph.

Here are the other built-in admonition types:

Pro tip…​

Don’t forget…​

Watch out for…​

Ensure that…​

You can also create [admonition blocks](#admon-bl).

**Lead paragraph.**

    [.lead]
    This text will be styled as a lead paragraph (i.e., larger font).

This text will be styled as a lead paragraph (i.e., larger font).

The default Asciidoctor stylesheet automatically styles the first paragraph of the preamble as a lead paragraph.

See these sections in the Asciidoctor User Manual for more information and examples.

-   [Paragraphs](http://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#paragraph)

-   [Literal Text and Blocks](http://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#literal-text-and-blocks)

-   [Admonitions](http://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#admonition)

## Formatted Text

**Bold, Italic, and Monospace.**

    _italic phrase_

    __i__talic le__tt__ers

    *bold phrase*

    **b**old le**tt**ers

    *_bold italic phrase_*

    **__b__**old italic le**__tt__**ers

    `monospace phrase` and le``tt``ers

    `_monospace italic phrase_` and le``__tt__``ers

    `*monospace bold phrase*` and le``**tt**``ers

    `*_monospace bold italic phrase_*` and le``**__tt__**``ers

    `+inline literal passthrough+` (monospace text without substitutions)

*italic phrase*

*i*talic le*tt*ers

**bold phrase**

**b**old le**tt**ers

***bold italic phrase***

***b***old italic le***tt***ers

`monospace phrase` and le\`\`tt\`\`ers

`_monospace italic phrase_` and le\`\`*tt*\`\`ers

`*monospace bold phrase*` and le\`\`**tt**\`\`ers

`*_monospace bold italic phrase_*` and le\`\`***tt***\`\`ers

`+inline literal passthrough+` (monospace text without substitutions)

**Custom Styling.**

    Do werewolves believe in [small]#small print#?

    [big]##O##nce upon an infinite loop.

Do werewolves believe in small print?

Once upon an infinite loop.

**Superscript and Subscript.**

    ^super^script phrase

    ~sub~script phrase

<sup>super</sup>script phrase

<sub>sub</sub>script phrase

**Curved Quotes.**

    '`single smart quotes`'

    "`double smart quotes`"

*`single smart quotes`*

"`double smart quotes`"

See these sections in the Asciidoctor User Manual for more information and examples.

-   [Bold and Italic Formatting](http://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#bold-and-italic)

-   [Quotation Marks and Apostrophes](http://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#quotation-marks-and-apostrophes)

-   [Subscript and Superscript](http://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#subscript-and-superscript)

-   [Monospace Formatting](http://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#monospace)

-   [Custom Styling with Attributes](http://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#custom-styling-with-attributes)

-   [Passthrough Macros](http://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#passthrough-macros)

### Document Header

A header is optional.
When you do add a header to your document, the only required element is a title.

The header may not contain blank lines and must be offset from the content by at least one blank line.
